There’s this reverie that my mind loves to splurge on. Rooftop. 1 am. A starry night sky. On a very tall building, but there are no specific dimensions, because it’s a figment of my imagination. There’s just this zone of serenity and bliss, nothing concrete. No!  Why must we always look for numbers and figures to define everything we know? I could count the tranquil beats of your heart and tell that we have a plenty more till our little forever. And the breeze tickles our skin, don’t you just love the sweet chill of this breeze on a summer night? You can’t reckon the way it holds sway over the hush of the night. There’s no number for that, it’s like looking at your eyes and trying to tell how beautiful they are.

Do you have any idea that how intensely your eyes pierce into my soul? Can I describe that? I hope someday they find a better word because all the synonyms of beautiful are too vague for the way you make me feel.

We’re floating on a cloud, that’s what it feels like when you’re lying next to me. It’s like walking on water, when you think about it too often, the waves caressing your feet keeping you afloat. A meticulous sense of calm in a menacing state of high.

A strand of auburn hair laying peacefully on my forehead and you slide it aside with your soft, warm hands. They make me believe in the superstition that loyal people have warm hands. You make me believe in the superstition called love. The way your touch scintillates and sedates me all the same. It’s like the ebb and flow of waves in a high spirited river. You make me feel alive and full of colours, like a rainbow ending in a pot of gold. And when you kiss me, it’s like the waves breaking at the banks in sweet submission. You heal me and then you break me a million times, like a phoenix reborn out of ashes. And nothing but pure ecstasy driving out everything else.

But these words don’t do any justice to what I feel in my reverie. The promise of a young blossom on a spring morning, the fulfilling feeling of the soil when it’s drenched to the core after a day of heavy rain. No words would do justice, no numbers would mark the value of that beautiful daydream. And maybe that’s why it’s so beautiful.
Change is inevitable and so are experiences. I’ve always believed that it is all about the journey, the search for a destination and the only destination that exists is where life ends. Every day of our lives marks the beginning of a new story or just successive addition to the old one. I am 17 and I am planning for my ‘someday’ but slowly without me even realising that someday would be today and then that someday would be yesterday and this is life. Weren’t things so different some time back? For some of us it may range from a few weeks to a few years, the day you realise, ‘that is when it all changed!’ is the day you realise the transient nature of time. The only thing that is permanent is you. Life often goes off course, in this desperate moment you must make a decision. It may even lift you up to embrace a new path. When young, we feel we are invincible like nothing can hurt us and we can push it all, we all have plans. BIG PLANS. ‘But It’s not until the end of your life that you realize how the plans you made where simply plans. Because at the end when you’re looking back instead of forward you want to believe you made the most of what life gave you. You want to believe you’re leaving something good behind. You want it all to have mattered.’ Are you afraid? Afraid of having this time being washed away and never having it back, afraid of losing the person who you are or scared of who you might become? Well I am. But I’ve come to the conclusion that if having things turn out the way you wanted them to is a measure of a successful life, then some would say I’m a failure. Things from now won’t always be uphill, you’d be frozen before you actually know that time has passed, things will happen for the very first time for some. But what you do matters, the choices you make, the decisions you take, the moments when you have the time of your life or worse experiences, they all matter. If life comes at you with rushing darkness, are you going to face it with someone or will your struggle be of your own?

The important thing is not to be bitter over life’s disappointments. If you just look at the year gone by, we’ve all had our share of ups and downs, we have all had our patience and courage tested, so if you’re reading this you’d might want to give yourself a pat on the back for surviving it all. It is not easy, it wouldn’t have been. Because in your life, you’re the hero.  Do not let your fire go out, spark by irreplaceable spark in the hopeless swaps of the not quite, the not yet, and the not at all. Do not let the hero in your soul perish in lonely frustration for the life you deserved and have never been able to reach. The world you desire can be won. It exists. It is real. It is possible. It is yours. Someday you will have to leave the refuge of dependence and establish yourself. When is your someday?

Don’t worry about change, embrace it.
It’s all very hazy when you look close enough. Faces drifting in and out like autumn leaves floating through the wind. The onrush of words producing a static in warp speed. Moments ticking by, vanishing like stars in a blackhole. There’s so little that we can hold on to, when compared to all the million moments that just fade into oblivion. In a vast universe made up of eons and galaxies, how many stars are enough to not feel lonely? I always thought that there’s hope. That there’s something out there, which will bring meaning to everything that is. Everything that was or will be. I open doors leading to different people, different worlds. It all depends on how you see it. What music is playing in the background? Is it a sad symphony or an adorable lullaby. What do you see when you’re not looking? What do you hear when you’re not listening? What is your perspective?

All these passengers roaming about on a platform, it’s like I’m standing still and the world is moving all around me in warp speed. Voices, faces and figures transmuting into epiphanies. I hear so many words everyday spilled out hastily by careless speakers, I hear people filtering their truths with lies of comfort. But where are we heading? On this journey of stars and green fields and gay blossoms. How many bumps can you afford? Did you take your head out to look at the beautiful scenery amid your journey or were you too busy whining about getting to the end. Did you let your hand sway in the dancing spring breeze or were you too stuck up and lost in your mp3 while your weary eyes fell asleep. Oblivious to all the experiences that were scattered all around you like raindrops in a monsoon. Experiences you never had because you were too busy focusing on how bumpy the road is.

And then once in a while, there is this serendipitious moment of clarity, when the storms cease to bother and you look past the hinging raindrops stuck in midair. Away from their beginning, not anywhere near their end. In retrospect, I’m standing outside a bookshop and it’s raining. And I can hear the beautiful song of the raindrops tiptoeing onto obliterating surfaces. The evanescence of the raindrops twirling into the nascence of music. We’re so hung up on being here, there and everywhere. And then we complain on being stuck. Why can’t we all learn to let go like the kindling in a fire. Why are we so scared of becoming a new person? Why can’t we let go of everything we’ve always held onto. Isn’t monotony a rather crippling force of destitution that strips you off all your dreams and imagination. Why can’t we just go back to being the little child who knows nothing but to question everything he sees? The child who dreams endlessly and believes in them, and thinks that the world is stupid for preaching otherwise.

Write as many words as you know, even if they don’t make any sense. Even if none of this gibberish made any sense just understand one thing: it doesn’t always have to. Because experiencing is more important than judging. And living is more important than merely existing. Look inside your heart, now tell me what do you feel? And ask yourself whatever you’re feeling right now, is that the last feeling you’d want to experience if you were to die the next moment? If it is, then this monotonous predication would’ve made sense. If not, then you should go down your memory lane and ponder upon all those times when the only loving companions you had were solitude and mother nature. And ask yourself how many times did you notice their presence in the absence of things and people. And how many times did you discover things that you normally never noticed.

We are all classified anomalies made up of the experiences we have. If you don’t know the answers when you’ve been seeking them too long, you’re either asking the wrong questions or looking in the wrong places. Or maybe you don’t know how long is too long? But the real question is are these questions important? Are these worth the last moment of your life? Are you asking too many questions? Like me?
The night my father brought home a new PC, I couldn't sleep for a single moment. The next morning, I ran up to him and asked with shiny eyes and a huge grin if I could use it too. At six years old, I was excited by the games on the computer, but my father impressed upon me that the PC was a luxury, and its uses should be constructive.
My father's dedication to helping others, along with his conviction of the importance and potential of computers, played a vital role in shaping my own ambitions. This influential environment that I was brought up in has sculpted my ambitions to pursue a career in Computer Science, and use my abilities to develop products that will make significant contributions to the world. My interest in computer science, coupled with my dedication to studying the vast mysteries of our universe, have led me to pursue majors in both computer science and astronomy.
The seed of curiosity had its roots deep inside of me by middle school. I would finish my homework in school or on the way back home just so I could go home and spend time on the computer. My school teacher noticed how I was so familiar with the machine and would ask me to help other students with their assigned tasks. As I grew older, I learned the importance of programming and decided to do online courses in Python, HTML, Visual Basic, and some basic iOS app development. By age fifteen, I had developed my own version of Tic Tac Toe and other games for iOS. After watching movies like ‘I,Robot’, I decided to study Artificial Intelligence , with the goal of understanding how it might be implemented in our daily lives while not posing a threat to our existence as a species.

 Despite my passion for computer science, I was battling with an existential crisis:the idea that we’re alone in a vast and mysterious universe. I needed to know what was out there in space, beyond our current grasp and so I decided to join the astronomy club. It was going well for the first few weeks until I embarked on independent research that would drastically alter my outlook and catalyse an abiding fascination with our universe.Now, I find myself bringing up black holes, time as a dimension, and the search for singularity in conversation with my parents and classmates. I am dedicated to understanding these issues and learning how to apply this knowledge.The Fermi Paradox in particular bas me in its grip right now: it poses a question that implies life on other planets. Then why have we still not made contact? This question, and others like it, have expanded my perspective and motivated me to study astronomy, with the ultimate goal of knowing little more about what we call home.

I hope to excel in both the fields of computer science and astronomy, and allow each subject to enrich my study of the other. In my future career, I plan to apply my programming skills along with my in-depth knowledge of space to make computer systems for outer space exploration with a space research organisation.

To have a part in finding out about what none of us know yet is what I aspire to achieve. I sincerely hope that I would be honoured to begin the first steps of my journey amongst the renowned faculty and resources of UIUC. I believe that just like an author can change the world with a pen, a politician with a speech, I want to change the world with my keyboard.

“We accept the reality of the world with which we are presented. It’s as simple as that.” I read in a newspaper article in November, and it led me to think of the events that unfolded a year ago; a story that explains the very essence of the person who I am today and the emotional jungle I went through to get here.

     “Do you want to go to the ball with me?” I asked, visibly nervous and sweating. ”I would love to,” she said, giggling. I raced across the hall to tell my best friend who was celebrating our triumph in the World Scholars Cup Tournament Of Champions at Yale(TOC).

    Let’s rewind. I was born an Indian-Hindu and as a millennial, I have been brought up in an environment hostile to Muslims. The media coverage of events throughout my life has always portrayed Muslims in a negative light. Such conditioning right from when I was born was bound to take its toll on me. Chills ran down my spine every time I saw a man with a skull cap or a woman wearing a burqa. I would hurry shopping if I saw ‘one of them’ nearby, avoid areas like Chandni Chowk because many Muslims lived there. Animosity toward Islam and its followers had been a part of me for 16 years. However this animosity that defined a part of me for so long dissipated in a single moment.

    At the TOC there were students from all over the world including the Middle West (It’s East from the US perspective; West from here in India). I was terrified something would go wrong I ignored my best friend who explained that there was nothing to worry about and that not all Muslims are terrorists. I walked away murmuring a silent prayer.

    On debate day, we competed against a team from Lebanon. Before the debate my teammates were casually chatting with members of the Lebanese team, “They look like Muslims”,I thought as I tried to distance myself from the conversation, but I was dragged into the conversation. Ten minutes later, I was laughing, cracking jokes and realized how wrong I had been my entire life. They introduced me to other people some from the Middle West and some from Europe. I found that I didn't care where they came from, what religion they were a part of or what culture they identified with. For the first time, all that mattered was that they were good people. This realization culminated with me wanting to ask one of the members of the Lebanese team, Aleyna, to the ball that evening. Now you’re up to date.

    Dancing to a Coldplay song, I thought of how a week earlier I couldn't stand to look at Muslims and now I was dancing with one. I came to the realization that religion, race, and caste are being used for the old imperial policy of ‘Divide and Rule’. What I learned was not necessarily that Muslims were good people but that we were all fundamentally the same. This newfound paradigm led me to look at what’s wrong with this world in a completely different light. I now understand how organizations like IS (Daesh) are using this Islam-o-phobia to their advantage. Had this experience not happened, maybe I too would be blaming the acts of the 0.1% on the 99.9% of Muslims.

    My failure was not my predisposition to fear Muslims. It was the seed of prejudice against fellow human beings. Given the current situation in the world full of warmongers and hatred I believe that my failure has led me to a successful position, where my world views are no longer superficial. I recall having read somewhere that “The monsters of the mind are far worse than those that actually exist. Fear, doubt, and hate have hamstrung more people than beasts ever have.”

    The chugging sound steadily increased as the train left the Delhi on its way to Jodhpur on Nov 26 2008. My family and I were on our way to my uncle’s big fat Indian wedding. After about 2 hours into our journey all our phones started to ring in quick succession, friends, relatives and even acquaintances who we only met at special occasions were all asking about are well-being.The infamous attacks of 26/11 had begun. Ten men had infiltrated Mumbai with the aim to kill as many as possible.

Why would anyone want to kill hundreds of fellow humans? People predicted a variety of reasons for the attack, but I couldn't digest the fact that someone could stoop down to such extremities. Some time later, I decided to go to the root of the problem, I researched, read books, watched TED talks, discussed such issues with hundreds of other people at MUN conferences trying to get down to they why? To find one reason that I though was valid enough to commit mass murder. It was that one experience that led me on a path which has kept me wanting more. That has led to my development, to who I am today. The thirst for this knowledge is so bad that even though in my Senior Year I don't have Political Science as a subject, I end up reading books like The Globalisation Of World Politics. Yet I still don't understand and I hope I never understand because the day I do is the day I stop wanting more.

I’m Archit Gupta, Class of 2020, and I’m a prospective Computer Science major.

Phew. Those are heavy words. Those are words that literally drip with stress. I’m looking forward to a big workload and a lot of time spent studying. But I’m okay with that. Why?

Because I’m more than just an techie prefrosh. I’m a playwright and a composer and a designer and a filmmaker and a sport-star. And I have a million outlets for stress, and they’re all creative. I expect to find myself in your music practice rooms many nights, unwinding at the sarod. Because when I unwind, I unwind hard.

So, Weston Hall is a vibrant, creative, diverse community of artists and academics? Excellent. I’m going to need a caring, tight-knit family to fall back on, but I intend to earn that family. I want to have jam sessions, to create and to unravel myself into my work and to be as vibrant and creative as the people around me. What do I hope to gain? A sense of community; a supportive family; an outlet for stress. What do I plan to contribute? As much of myself as I can. As much of my creative spirit and love as I can.

I think Weston Exploration LLC seems like the sort of place that welcome students of all sorts. Even tech-geeks. That’s why I want to live in Weston Hall.
